docs:#865 sizing guidelines and use cases (#890)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/platform/deployment/sizing.mdx

</head>

For best performance, size your Redpanda cluster to handle the volume of data being produced, replicated, and consumed. The following variables affect cluster sizing:

- MB/sec of data being produced and consumed (after compression, if applied)
- Topic replication factor
- Number of producers and consumers

Throughput and retention requirements can cause bottlenecks in the system. On an undersized cluster, clients could saturate the available network bandwidth, a disk could run out of IOPS and be unable to keep up with writes, or you could simply run out of disk space. On an oversized Redpanda cluster, you could overpay for unnecessary infrastructure. For detailed sizing on various throughput and retention scenarios, see [Sizing Use Cases](../../deployment/sizing-use-cases).

This topic describes sizing considerations. In general:
- 2:1 core-to-local-disk ratio for maximum I/O performance (preferably NVMe SSD)
- Minimum of 2GB memory for each core, but more memory is better
- Total network bandwidth needs to account for writes, replication, and reads

> - Test with I3en (AWS), n2-standard (GCP), and lsv2 (Azure) cloud instance types

Reviewer: Type: I3 should be i3

For example, AWS io2 volumes offer up to 64,000 IOPS and 1,000 MB/sec throughput with single-digit millisecond latency. This is an expensive option, so if you can trade performance for cost, then AWS gp3 volumes are a good alternative. GCP has comparable options with high-end Extreme persistent disks and the lesser SSD persistent disks. Likewise, Azure has Ultra, Premium, and Standard persistent disk options for choosing the right balance of performance versus cost.

Whichever option you choose, benchmark Redpanda’s underlying storage for read and write performance, at least from an I/O perspective. FIO is a good tool for replicating Redpanda’s sequential write pattern and load. The following example shows how to run FIO on a Debian-based server:

```bash
$ sudo apt -y update; sudo apt -y install fio
$ cd /var/lib/redpanda/data
$ sudo vim fio-seq-write.job
[global]
name=fio-seq-write
filename=fio-seq-write
rw=write
bs=16K
direct=1
numjobs=4
group_reporting
time_based
runtime=300
[file1]
size=10G
ioengine=libaio
iodepth=16
$ sudo fio fio-seq-write.job
```

> Key performance metrics:

Author: @jrkinley should we replace this with a link to the metrics: https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/platform/cluster-administration/monitoring/?

> Key performance metrics:

Author: @jrkinley should we replace this list of key performance metrics with a link to the latest metric doc page: https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/platform/cluster-administration/monitoring/?

Reviewer: No, these are specifically referring to fio

When Tiered Storage is enabled on a topic, it immediately copies closed log segments into the configured storage bucket or container. The default log segment size is set to one GB, so by default, a topic’s object store lags approximately one GB behind the local copy. Lowering `segment.bytes` is one way to reduce this lag. This lets Redpanda archive smaller log segments more frequently, at the cost of increasing I/O and file count. You can also set an idle timeout to force Redpanda to periodically archive the contents of open log segments to object storage. This is useful if a topic’s write rate is low and log segments are kept open for long periods of time. Adjusting how much data the object store lags behind the local copy allows Redpanda to meet stricter recovery point in time objectives.

> This is encapsulated in the Kafka API, so clients can continue to produce and consume data from Redpanda in the same way. Consumers that keep up with producers continue to read from local storage and are subject to the local data retention policy. Consumers that want to read from older offsets do so with the same consumer API, and Redpanda handles fetching the necessary log segments from object storage. 

Author: > 

Thanks @hcoyote. Please let me know if this section is still confusing: https://deploy-preview-890--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/platform/deployment/sizing/#tiered-storage

See also: [Tiered Storage](../../data-management/tiered-storage/)

### Production settings

> Before running performance benchmark testing, set Redpanda into production mode and run the auto-tuning tool (`rpk redpanda tune all`) on every node. This enables the necessary hardware optimizations and ensures that the kernel parameters are set correctly.

Author: @jrkinley please confirm if `rpk redpanda tune all` is correct here.

---
title: Sizing Guidelines
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Sizing Guidelines| Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to size Redpanda clusters for low, medium, and high throughput use cases in your data center and in the cloud."/>
</head>

For best performance, size your Redpanda cluster to handle the volume of data being produced, replicated, and consumed. The following variables affect cluster sizing:

- MB/sec of data being produced and consumed (after compression, if applied)
- Topic replication factor
- Number of producers and consumers

Throughput and retention requirements can cause bottlenecks in the system. On an undersized cluster, clients could saturate the available network bandwidth, a disk could run out of IOPS and be unable to keep up with writes, or you could simply run out of disk space. On an oversized Redpanda cluster, you could overpay for unnecessary infrastructure. For detailed sizing on various throughput and retention scenarios, see [Sizing Use Cases](../../deployment/sizing-use-cases).

> This topic describes sizing considerations. In general:

Author: No, the bullets don't exactly align with the sections.

- 2:1 core-to-local-disk ratio for maximum I/O performance (preferably NVMe SSD)
- Minimum of 2GB memory for each core, but more memory is better
- Total network bandwidth needs to account for writes, replication, and reads

> - Test with i3en (AWS), n2-standard (GCP), and lsv2 (Azure) cloud instance types

Author: fixed

- Use Tiered Storage to unify historical and real-time data

> - Run hardware and Redpanda benchmark tests to provide a performance baseline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run hardware and Redpanda benchmark tests to provide a performance baseline
- The number of nodes should be chosen based on the above criteria and additional nodes added for fault tolerance. This ensure that the system can operate with full throughput in a degraded state.
```

## Sizing considerations

### Network

> A basic Redpanda cluster can have three nodes, a topic with a single partition and a replication factor of three, and a single producer and consumer. For every 100 MB written to the partition’s leader, 200 MB is transmitted across the network to other nodes for replication, and 100 MB is transmitted to the consumer. In this case, producing 100 MB/sec equates to 400 MB/sec (3,200 Mbps) of network traffic. Even with the same amount of data produced, increasing the replication factor or the number of consumers increases bandwidth utilization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To understand the network usage of a basic Redpanda cluster, consider a cluster with three nodes, a topic with a single partition and a replication factor of three, and a single producer and consumer. For every 100 MB written to the partition’s leader, 200 MB is transmitted across the network to other nodes for replication, and 100 MB is transmitted to the consumer. In this case, producing 100 MB/sec equates to 400 MB/sec (3,200 Mbps) of network traffic. Even with the same amount of data produced, increasing the replication factor or the number of consumers increases bandwidth utilization.
```

It’s important to measure the network bandwidth between nodes, and between clients and nodes, to make sure that you’re getting the expected performance from the network. This is especially important for cloud deployments where network bandwidth is not always guaranteed. For example, AWS i3en instances only guarantee network bandwidth above a certain instance size (`i3en.6xlarge`). Below that size, network bandwidth is advertised as “up to 25 Gbps.” For this reason, soak test the network to understand how it behaves over longer periods of time. 

> The following example uses [iPerf3](https://iperf.fr/) to test the network bandwidth between two Debian-based servers:

Author: added

```bash
redpanda1:~$ sudo apt -y update; sudo apt -y install iperf3
redpanda1:~$ iperf3 -s
-----------------------------------------------------------
Server listening on 5201
-----------------------------------------------------------
redpanda2:~$ sudo apt update; sudo apt install iperf3
redpanda2:~$ iperf3 -c redpanda1 -p 5201 -t 300
Connecting to host redpanda1, port 5201
[ ID] Interval Transfer Bitrate Retr Cwnd
[ 5] 0.00-1.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.57 Gbits/sec 0 1.64 
MBytes
[ 5] 1.00-2.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.53 Gbits/sec 0 1.64 
MBytes
[ 5] 2.00-3.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.53 Gbits/sec 0 1.64 
MBytes
[ 5] 3.00-4.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.53 Gbits/sec 0 1.72 
MBytes
[ 5] 4.00-5.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.53 Gbits/sec 0 1.72 
MBytes
...
```

### CPU and memory

> Topic partitions are the unit of parallelisation in Redpanda. Adding partitions is how you scale to meet workload demands. Redpanda is designed to scale up to utilize all available hardware and scale out to distribute performance across multiple nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Redpanda is designed to scale up to utilize all available hardware and scale out to distribute performance across multiple nodes. Topic partitions are the unit of parallelization in Redpanda. Adding partitions is how you scale to meet workload demands. 
```

Redpanda implements a thread-per-core programming model through its use of the [Seastar](https://seastar.io/) library. This allows Redpanda to pin each of its application threads to a CPU core to avoid context switching and blocking, significantly improving processing performance and efficiency.

> Redpanda can handle approximately one GB/sec of writes for each core, depending on the workload. Since NVMe disks can have a sustained write speed of over one GB/sec, it takes two cores to saturate a single NVMe disk. At higher throughput rates, a 2:1 core-to-disk ratio is important to avoid I/O bottlenecks, and a minimum of four cores is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Redpanda can handle approximately one GB/sec of writes for each core, depending on the workload. Since NVMe disks can have a sustained write speed of over one GB/sec, it takes two cores to saturate a single NVMe disk. At higher throughput rates, a 2:1 core-to-disk ratio is important to avoid I/O bottlenecks, so a minimum of four cores is needed.
```

> Redpanda is basically a distributed transaction log, with well-understood access patterns. It appends data to the end of log files, and sequentially reads data from log files. For this reason, Redpanda bypasses the Linux page cache and manages its own memory and disk I/O. This gives Redpanda complete control over the underlying hardware to optimize I/O performance, deliver predictable tail latencies, and minimize its memory footprint. A minimum of two GB of memory for each core is recommended, but more is better.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Redpanda is basically a distributed transaction log with well-understood access patterns. It appends data to the end of log files and sequentially reads data from log files. For this reason, Redpanda bypasses the Linux page cache and manages its own memory and disk I/O. This gives Redpanda complete control over the underlying hardware to optimize I/O performance, deliver predictable tail latencies, and minimize its memory footprint. A minimum of two GB of memory for each core is recommended, but more is better.
```

### Storage

Your best storage solution for your workload depends on your performance and data retention requirements. 

> If high throughput and low latency is most important, then use locally-attached NVMe SSD disks. This is also a good option in the cloud. Just remember that local disks are ephemeral and data is wiped when an instance is restarted. An alternative in the cloud is to use SSD-backed remote storage to persist data between instance restarts. The hyper-clouds provide options for guaranteeing throughput and provisioned IOPS performance.

Reviewer 2: What are `hyper-clouds`?

Author: > What are `hyper-clouds`?

@shorgi this isn't in the text anymore. It's rewritten as:
If high throughput and low latency is most important, then use locally-attached NVMe SSD disks. This is also a good option in the cloud. Just remember that in the cloud, local disks are ephemeral, so data is wiped when an instance is restarted. An alternative in the cloud is to use SSD-backed remote storage to persist data between instance restarts. Most cloud providers have options for guaranteeing throughput and provisioned IOPS performance of network-attached storage, although network-attached storage almost always exhibits slightly higher tail latencies than direct-attached storage.

For example, AWS io2 volumes offer up to 64,000 IOPS and 1,000 MB/sec throughput with single-digit millisecond latency. This is an expensive option, so if you can trade performance for cost, then AWS gp3 volumes are a good alternative. GCP has comparable options with high-end Extreme persistent disks and the lesser SSD persistent disks. Likewise, Azure has Ultra, Premium, and Standard persistent disk options for choosing the right balance of performance versus cost.

> Whichever option you choose, benchmark Redpanda’s underlying storage for read and write performance, at least from an I/O perspective. FIO is a good tool for replicating Redpanda’s sequential write pattern and load. The following example shows how to run FIO on a Debian-based server:

Author: added this

- BW = Average bandwidth measured in MB per second. Bandwidth divided by the write block size (for example, bs=16K) is the IOPS.
- slat = Submission latency. The time in microseconds to submit the I/O to the kernel.
- clat = Completion latency. The time in microseconds after slat until the device has completed the I/O.
- lat = Overall latency in microseconds.
- clat percentiles = Completion tail latency. Pay particular attention to p90 and above. This is a good indication of whether the volume can deliver predictable, consistent performance.

### Data retention

Retention properties control how long messages are kept on disk before they're deleted or compacted. You can configure data retention until message age or aggregate message size in the topic is exceeded. Setting retention properties (at the topic level or the cluster level) is the best way to prevent old messages from accumulating on disk to the point that the disk becomes full. 

See also: [Configure message retention](../../deployment/disk-utilization/#configure-message-retention)

### Tiered Storage

> With only local storage, data retention is limited to the provisioned capacity: you must provision more nodes to increase capacity. Adding nodes is expensive, because you’re forced to overprovision infrastructure regardless of whether you need the additional compute power. In most cases, overprovisioning leads to underutilization and higher operational costs.
> 
> Redpanda Tiered Storage enables multi-tiered remote storage that archives log segments to object storage in near real time. Tiered Storage can be combined with local storage to provide infinite data retention and disaster recovery on a per-topic basis. Retention properties work the same for Tiered Storage topics and local storage topics. Data is retained in the cloud until it reaches the configured time or size limit. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Redpanda Tiered Storage enables multi-tiered remote storage that archives log segments to object storage in near real time.

With only local storage, data retention is limited to the provisioned capacity: you must provision more nodes to increase capacity. Adding nodes is expensive, because you’re forced to overprovision infrastructure regardless of whether you need the additional compute power. In most cases, overprovisioning leads to underutilization and higher operational costs.

Tiered Storage can be combined with local storage to provide infinite data retention and disaster recovery on a per-topic basis. Retention properties work the same for Tiered Storage topics and local storage topics. Data is retained in the cloud until it reaches the configured time or size limit. 
```

---
title: Sizing Guidelines
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Sizing Guidelines| Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to size Redpanda clusters for low, medium, and high throughput use cases in your data center and in the cloud."/>
</head>

For best performance, size your Redpanda cluster to handle the volume of data being produced, replicated, and consumed. The following variables affect cluster sizing:

> - MB/sec of data being produced (after compression, if applied)

Reviewer 3: - MB/sec of data being produced and consumed

This topic describes sizing considerations. In general:
- 2:1 core-to-local-disk ratio for maximum I/O performance (preferably NVMe SSD)
- Minimum of 2GB memory for each core, but more memory is better
- Total network bandwidth needs to account for writes, replication, and reads
- Test with i3en (AWS), n2-standard (GCP), and lsv2 (Azure) cloud instance types
- Use Tiered Storage to unify historical and real-time data
- Run hardware and Redpanda benchmark tests to provide a performance baseline

## Sizing considerations

### Network

A basic Redpanda cluster can have three nodes, a topic with a single partition and a replication factor of three, and a single producer and consumer. For every 100 MB written to the partition’s leader, 200 MB is transmitted across the network to other nodes for replication, and 100 MB is transmitted to the consumer. In this case, producing 100 MB/sec equates to 400 MB/sec (3,200 Mbps) of network traffic. Even with the same amount of data produced, increasing the replication factor or the number of consumers increases bandwidth utilization.

> It’s important to measure the network bandwidth between nodes, and between clients and nodes, to make sure that you’re getting the expected performance from the network. This is especially important for cloud deployments where network bandwidth is not always guaranteed. For example, AWS i3en instances only guarantee network bandwidth above a certain instance size (`i3en.6xlarge`). Below that size, network bandwidth is advertised as “up to 25 Gbps”. For this reason, soak test the network to understand how it behaves over longer periods of time. 

Reviewer 4: I think AWS actually uses AWS I3en (uppercase "i")

Author: fixed, thanks!

### Data retention

As specified by the Kafka API, data retention in Redpanda is based on partition size (`retention.bytes`) or age (`retention.ms`), whichever comes first. These settings create a sliding window of opportunity for consumers to read data from Redpanda before the retention process kicks in and older data is unavailable.

The settings are enforced at the partition level. Each partition writes to its own data directory, into one or more log segments. The size of each log segment is determined by `segment.bytes` (default = one GB). As data is produced on a partition, it is appended to the open log segment. When that log segment reaches `segment.bytes` in size, it is closed, and a new log segment is opened.

- `retention.bytes`: This controls the maximum size of a partition directory. When the total size of all log segments in a partition directory reaches this value, the retention process discards old log segments. Multiply `retention.bytes` by the number of partitions in your topic to get the topic-level retention in bytes.

> - `retention.ms`: This also controls the size of a partition directory, but it does so based on the age of log segments rather than their combined size. Log segments are discarded when their maximum timestamp grows older than `retention.ms`.

Reviewer 3: As above, the behaviour of `retention.bytes` and `retention.ms` has changed in `v22.3`.

This is encapsulated in the Kafka API, so clients can continue to produce and consume data from Redpanda in the same way. Consumers that keep up with producers continue to read from local storage and are subject to the local data retention policy. Consumers that want to read from older offsets do so with the same consumer API, and Redpanda handles fetching the necessary log segments from object storage. 

See also: [Tiered Storage](../../platform/data-management/tiered-storage/)

### Production settings

> Before running performance benchmark testing, set Redpanda into production mode and run the auto tuning tool on every node. This enables the necessary hardware optimizations and ensures that the kernel parameters are set correctly.

Author: SMEs: What is the auto-tuning too? Is it `rpk iotune`?

Reviewer 5: I think it's both, but there is some complication around containers: running redpanda in a container is more complicated because (a) I am not sure the `rpk` well-known-io detection logic will work inside a container or it may depend on the container networking config (see https://redpandadata.slack.com/archives/C024H6DSU2H/p1673450827074599) and (b) it is less clear how to run `rpk iotune`: you can't just run it on the host or inside the container, probably it has to be run on the host then the results written to somewhere accessible to the container, which we don't really document.

In general we don't document much about `rpk iotune` except that it exists and you should run it: probably an area for improvement?

Author: Thanks @travisdowns. I added info this to issue #979.

> See also: [Set Redpanda production mode](../../platform/deployment/production-deployment/#set-redpanda-production-mode)

Reviewer 4: This link doesn't work

Author: fixed, thanks!

---
title: Sizing Guidelines
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Sizing Guidelines| Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to size Redpanda clusters for low, medium, and high throughput use cases in your data center and in the cloud."/>
</head>

For best performance, size your Redpanda cluster to handle the volume of data being produced, replicated, and consumed. The following variables affect cluster sizing:

> - MB/sec of data being produced and consumed (after compression, if applied)

Reviewer 5: Better to say "Throughput of data ..." I think.

Author: @travisdowns: I'm not positive that I read your suggestion correctly. Please let me know if this is correct: https://deploy-preview-890--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/platform/deployment/sizing/

- Topic replication factor
- Number of producers and consumers

Throughput and retention requirements can cause bottlenecks in the system. On an undersized cluster, clients could saturate the available network bandwidth, a disk could run out of IOPS and be unable to keep up with writes, or you could simply run out of disk space. On an oversized Redpanda cluster, you could overpay for unnecessary infrastructure. For detailed sizing on various throughput and retention scenarios, see [Sizing Use Cases](../../deployment/sizing-use-cases).

Choose the number of nodes based on the following criteria, and add nodes for fault tolerance. This ensures that the system can operate with full throughput in a degraded state.

> - Have a 2:1 core-to-local-disk ratio for maximum I/O performance (preferably NVMe SSD).

Reviewer 5: Per other comment, I think this 2:1 core-to-disk ratio is mostly meaningless.

> - Have a minimum of 2 GB memory for each core, but more memory is better.

Reviewer 5: Maybe we should say "per shard" not "per core"? Because I assume we are trying to recommend 2 GB per _shard_ but _core_ could be 1 or 2 shards depending on hyperthreading and also customer may not assign all shards to cores.

- Total network bandwidth must account for writes, replication, and reads.

> - Test with i3en, i4i, is4gen (AWS), n2-standard (GCP), and lsv2 (Azure) cloud instance types.

Reviewer 5: This seems like an unusual order to a user? They should test on every cloud type? Or maybe I'm reading it wrong, and it is trying to say: _If_ you are on AWS, try these 3 types, and _if_ you are GCP ... ?

In that case it may need to restructured since there is only 1 option listed for GCP and Azure.

Author: fixed

- Use Tiered Storage to unify historical and real-time data.
- Run hardware and Redpanda benchmark tests for a performance baseline.

## Sizing considerations

### Network

> To understand the network usage of a basic Redpanda cluster, consider a cluster with three nodes, a topic with a single partition and a replication factor of three, and a single producer and consumer. For every 100 MB written to the partition’s leader, 200 MB is transmitted across the network to other nodes for replication, and 100 MB is transmitted to the consumer. In this case, producing 100 MB/sec equates to 400 MB/sec (3,200 Mbps) of network traffic. Even with the same amount of data produced, increasing the replication factor or the number of consumers increases bandwidth utilization.

Reviewer 5: As mentioned in the other doc, the 100 + 200 + 100 isn't exactly right because the 200 part (replication) requires bandwidth to both send and receive (since both endpoints are in the cluster) while the 100 values have only 1 end in the cluster. So if we count send + recv seperately (i.e., 1 broker sending 1 byte to another counts as 1 + 1 = 2) then it's 100 + 200 * 2 + 100.

Author: @travisdowns: Please see this edited section (I used the same values we used in the sizing use cases page): https://deploy-preview-890--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/platform/deployment/sizing/#network

> It’s important to measure the network bandwidth between nodes, and between clients and nodes, to make sure that you’re getting the expected performance from the network. This is especially important for cloud deployments where network bandwidth is not always guaranteed. For example, AWS i3en instances only guarantee network bandwidth above a certain instance size (`i3en.6xlarge`). Below that size, network bandwidth is advertised as “up to 25 Gbps.” For this reason, soak test the network to understand how it behaves over longer periods of time. 

Reviewer 5: On AWS network bandwidth is guaranteed also on the smaller instance sizes, but AWS just chooses to list the burst bandwidth ("up to 25 Gbps") on the main overview pages. 

See here for the values:

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/storage-optimized-instances.html

Where it shows that i3en.3xlarge has a guaranteed bandwidth of 12.5 Gbps which is half that of the 6x instance size, so exactly in line with its size.

This advice is still correct in spirit because short tests may use only the burst bandwidth and get unrealistically good results because of it, but I think this should be re-worked to just mention the way bursting works and how to avoid testing only the burst bandwidth rather than making a claim about "lack of guaranteed bandwidth".

Author: @travisdowns: Please review this edited section: https://deploy-preview-890--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/platform/deployment/sizing/#sizing-considerations

The following example uses [iPerf3](https://iperf.fr/) to test the network bandwidth between two Debian-based servers:

```bash
redpanda1:~$ sudo apt -y update; sudo apt -y install iperf3
redpanda1:~$ iperf3 -s
-----------------------------------------------------------
Server listening on 5201
-----------------------------------------------------------
redpanda2:~$ sudo apt update; sudo apt install iperf3
redpanda2:~$ iperf3 -c redpanda1 -p 5201 -t 300
Connecting to host redpanda1, port 5201
[ ID] Interval Transfer Bitrate Retr Cwnd
[ 5] 0.00-1.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.57 Gbits/sec 0 1.64 
MBytes
[ 5] 1.00-2.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.53 Gbits/sec 0 1.64 
MBytes
[ 5] 2.00-3.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.53 Gbits/sec 0 1.64 
MBytes
[ 5] 3.00-4.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.53 Gbits/sec 0 1.72 
MBytes
[ 5] 4.00-5.00 sec 1.11 GBytes 9.53 Gbits/sec 0 1.72 
MBytes
...
```

> To do a full network stress test, run iperf3 for every combination of network routes. Unlike iperf2, iperf3 does not accept multiple network connections.

Reviewer 5: What this is asking the user to do is not clear to me. Also, why do we mention iperf2 if we aren't using it?

Author: @travisdowns: I think this was suggested by @hcoyote. I removed the last line. Please see https://deploy-preview-890--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/platform/deployment/sizing/#network and let me know if it's OK.

Reviewer 6: wasn't me. not sure what that comment referred to. while iperf2 server supported multiple client connections in parallel, a single server wouldn't do the full cross-sectional test (e.g. N to N pathways). but I agree that taking it out is right.

Basically, we want the user to test for a 3-node environment:

NodeA <-> Node B
NodeB <-> Node C
NodeC <-> Node A

Might actually be good to come with a standalone ansible runbook or something to help them do this test.

Reviewer 6: btw, we can probably expand the details on iperf testing in another issue, it doesn't need to hold this up.

### CPU and memory

Redpanda is designed to scale up to utilize all available hardware and scale out to distribute performance across multiple nodes. Topic partitions are the unit of parallelization in Redpanda. Adding partitions is how you scale to meet workload demands. 

Redpanda implements a thread-per-core programming model through its use of the [Seastar](https://seastar.io/) library. This allows Redpanda to pin each of its application threads to a CPU core to avoid context switching and blocking, significantly improving processing performance and efficiency.

> Redpanda can handle approximately one GB/sec of writes for each core, depending on the workload. Since NVMe disks can have a sustained write speed of over one GB/sec, it takes two cores to saturate a single NVMe disk. At higher throughput rates, a 2:1 core-to-disk ratio is important to avoid I/O bottlenecks, so a minimum of four cores is needed.

Reviewer 5: I don't think this is the right way of thinking about it: a 2:1 ratio might be right for some specific combination of disks, but "1 disk" is not a specific unit of performance: disks might reasonable range anywhere from 0.1 to 4+ GB/s in throughput, while cores have a much smaller performance range. Furthermore, the cloud blurs what even is a "disk", since physical disks may be logically partitioned up among tenants and with network storage with configurable performance characteristics making a 2:1 ratio even less meaningful.

For the disk, what matters most is IOPS and throughput. For throughput, we could do something similar to network bandwidth where we describe how to calculate the aggregate write bandwidth needed, etc.

How many cores we need is a very complicated topic, in line with the _general caveat_. Maybe we should just say something very ballpark like 100 MB/s per core for now.

Author: @travisdowns: Please confirm if this is correct: https://deploy-preview-890--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/platform/deployment/sizing/#cpu-and-memory

For example, AWS io2 volumes offer up to 64,000 IOPS and 1,000 MB/sec throughput with single-digit millisecond latency. This is an expensive option, so if you can trade performance for cost, then AWS gp3 volumes are a good alternative. GCP has comparable options with high-end Extreme persistent disks and the lesser SSD persistent disks. Likewise, Azure has Ultra, Premium, and Standard persistent disk options for choosing the right balance of performance versus cost.

Whichever option you choose, benchmark Redpanda’s underlying storage for read and write performance, at least from an I/O perspective. Fio is a good tool for replicating Redpanda’s sequential write pattern and load. 

The following example shows how to run fio on a Debian-based server:

:::note 
Ensure that the fio job runs against the chosen block device. By default, fio operates in the local directory.
:::

```bash
$ sudo apt -y update; sudo apt -y install fio
$ cd /var/lib/redpanda/data

> $ sudo vim fio-seq-write.job

Reviewer 5: I don't think `vim` makes sense here. Probably something like:

```
cat > fio-seq-write.job <<EOF
... (file contents>
EOF
```

Author: Hi @shorgi. Would you please help me make this edit? https://github.com/redpanda-data/documentation/pull/890#discussion_r1067431877

> ```bash
> $ sudo apt -y update; sudo apt -y install fio
> $ cd /var/lib/redpanda/data
> $ sudo vim fio-seq-write.job
> [global]
> name=fio-seq-write
> filename=fio-seq-write
> rw=write
> bs=16K
> direct=1
> numjobs=4
> group_reporting
> time_based
> runtime=300 # 5 minute runtime
> [file1]
> size=10G
> ioengine=libaio
> iodepth=16

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
$ sudo apt -y update; sudo apt -y install fio
$ cd /var/lib/redpanda/data
$ sudo cat < fio-seq-write.job << EOF
[global]
name=fio-seq-write
filename=fio-seq-write
rw=write
bs=16K
direct=1
numjobs=4
group_reporting
time_based
runtime=300 # 5 minute runtime
[file1]
size=10G
ioengine=libaio
iodepth=16
EOF
```

Author: Thank you @tmgstevens!

    <meta name="title" content="Sizing Guidelines| Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to size Redpanda clusters for low, medium, and high throughput use cases in your data center and in the cloud."/>
</head>

For best performance, size your Redpanda cluster to handle the volume of data being produced, replicated, and consumed. The following variables affect cluster sizing:

- Throughput of data (after compression, if applied)
- Topic replication factor
- Number of producers and consumers

Throughput and retention requirements can cause bottlenecks in the system. On an undersized cluster, clients could saturate the available network bandwidth, a disk could run out of IOPS and be unable to keep up with writes, or you could simply run out of disk space. On an oversized Redpanda cluster, you could overpay for unnecessary infrastructure. For sizing estimates and advice for various throughput and retention scenarios, see [Sizing Use Cases](../../deployment/sizing-use-cases).

In general, choose the number of nodes based on the following criteria, and add nodes for fault tolerance. This ensures that the system can operate with full throughput in a degraded state.

> - Total network bandwidth must account for writes, replication, and reads.

Reviewer 6: typo: "max rights" should probably be "max writes"

> - Total network bandwidth must account for writes, replication, and reads.

Author: Thanks @vuldin and @hcoyote. I changed this list item to:
* Total network bandwidth must account for maximum simultaneous writes and reads, multiplied by the replication factor.

> - Have a minimum of 2 GB memory for each shard, but more memory is better.

Reviewer 7: At some point we probably need to have a page to point users where they can find the answer to the question: "what is a shard?" But for now maybe its best to replace shard with core to avoid confusion?

```suggestion
- Have a minimum of 2 GB memory for each core, but more memory is better.
```

- Use Tiered Storage to unify historical and real-time data.

> - For AWS, test with either i3en, i4i, or is4gen; for GCP, test with n2-standard (GCP); and for Azure, test with lsv2.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- For AWS, test with either i3en, i4i, or is4gen; for GCP, test with n2-standard (GCP); and for Azure, test with lsv2. In general, choose instance types that prioritize storage and network performance.
```
